Good afternoon, everybody.
My name is Jeff Watkins,
and I'm an iOS engineer
on the Game Center team.
And today, I have the pleasure of talking
to you about some of the
new features in GameCenter.
Now, as you would expect,
there are a lot of things
under the covers that are new.
We've accelerated authentication,
so now your players can get
into the game a lot faster.
We've also accelerated things like
submitting scores and achievements,
so they take fewer system resources.
But really, that's the sort of thing that
you've just come to expect from
us with each rep of the software.
So they don't merit any more talking.
But we've talked to you guys a
lot over the last year or so.
And whether you're a veteran of the
game industry and you've been making
games since I was actually good at them,
like back in Dig Dug days,
or you're brand new to
building games for iOS,
you all have one thing in common.
You're the reason I can't get
my iPad back for my daughter.
And it's really quite fantastic
what you guys are doing with games.
They're really, really amazing.
The sorts of things that you
guys are doing on these little
devices is just incredible.
It's the sort of thing that you'd
have to take a workstation from
five years ago to have done,
and now it's on a little phone.
It's really amazing.
And the fact is,
these are really fun games.
And you're looking for something to set
your games apart from all the others.
You're looking for an edge.
You're looking for something that's
going to make your game a success.
But I hope you're looking
for something more than that.
You're looking for something to
make your game a huge success.
Now, there are a lot of factors that
go into making a game successful.
You've probably heard lots of things
about successful applications all
throughout the conference so far.
But there really are three
specific things that we want to
talk about in terms of games that
we think are really critical to
the success of all of your games.
The first of those is discoverable.
Your game has to be discoverable.
And by that,
I mean people have to find it, right?
If they don't find the game,
they're not going to download it.
If they don't download it,
they won't play it.
If they don't play it,
they won't have fun,
they won't tell their friends,
and more people won't
experience your game.
Second, your game has to be polished.
And this goes way beyond 3D graphics and
fancy sprites and immersive 3D sound.
There's a basic level of functionality
that all players expect now,
and your game has to support that.
And finally, your game has to be fun.
If it's not fun,
That's all over.
You're going to have to go back to
the financial industry and write
stock trading software and cry
yourself to sleep every night.
So those are the three things
we're going to talk about today.
Now let's dive right in with number one.
Discoverable.
So what do I mean by discoverable?
If you think about how
you learn about games,
you learn about games from your friends.
And we think that one of the
best places to learn about
games is through Game Center.
Game Center is fantastic for games.
You wouldn't expect me to say that
since I am a Game Center engineer.
But the fact is Game Center is terrific.
We've got 130 million players.
Now, those people aren't just signing
up for the latest social networking
craze and then doing nothing.
They're out there, they're playing games,
they're having a
tremendous amount of fun.
In fact, they're playing so many games
that they're submitting 5
billion scores every week.
That's a mind-blowing number.
It's actually amazing to me, frankly,
that these folks get anything
done because they're having so
much fun playing your games.
In fact, we all play your games a
little bit too much too.
So, 5 billion scores,
130 million players.
Of the top 100 games,
67 of them are Game Center games.
And we find that Game Center games
cluster near the top.
So Game Center games are
typically rated higher and are
downloaded more than other games.
So those of you who have
games in Game Center,
you know exactly what I'm talking about.
This is a fantastic party.
Folks are out there,
they're playing games,
they're having a lot of fun.
Those of you who don't have
games in Game Center yet,
dude, what are you waiting for?
This is the thing you've
got to take advantage of.
So how does a party get started?
Well, it all gets started with
game recommendations.
You want to have some
games on your device.
And the best way to get games, we find,
is to recommend games that
you already like playing.
So, for example,
later we're going to talk about Aideen,
and she's a racing fan,
she has stock car racing games,
sailboat racing games,
and now she's branching
out to space racing games.
So naturally,
if there's a new racing game out there,
we're going to recommend
the racing game to Aideen.
But also, we'll recommend games to Aideen
based on the games her friends play.
So her friend Bill loves Railroad Empire,
so naturally you're going to
recommend that game as well,
because it only makes sense that
the games that your friends play,
you might want to play with them.
Now, friends, pretty important deal,
especially if they're going to
get game recommendations for you.
So friend recommendations are also
an integral part of Game Center.
Now, we'll recommend friends
by the games you play.
So to Aideen, we'll recommend players
that also like racing games.
But we can also now, in iOS 6,
We can recommend friends based
on your Facebook profile.
So you can link your Game Center account
with your Facebook account,
and right away you can find all
of your friends from Facebook,
you can find their Game Center profiles.
And we think this is a great way
to get players' friend graphs
up and running very quickly.
Now, friends are really important.
Every afternoon special you've ever
seen drums that into your head.
Friends are your lifeline.
They do everything for you.
If you think about how you and your
friends interact regarding games,
you can see why friends are so important.
When my team and I are
hanging out playing games,
we don't just play the game.
We talk about the games we have played.
In fact, most of the games that I enjoy
playing with my family,
I discovered because of my friends.
And so friends are crucial to
the discoverability of your game.
So friends tell friends about games.
It's that simple, right?
Baked into Game Center from day one
has been the ability to tell your
friends about the games you're playing.
All you have to do is
tap that little button,
up comes an email sheet,
you address it to some of
your friends and whoosh,
now they know.
That's a good start.
And in iOS 5, we added in-app rating.
So previously,
you had to ask players to pop off
to the app store and rate your
game and maybe write a review.
But now, right after they finish playing
and they've had a great time,
they bring up their leaderboard to see
how they compare against their friends,
and right there they can rate your
game and let everybody in the app store
know what a great game you've built.
Now, this is pretty critical, right,
because you can imagine we recommend
games that are five stars before we'll
recommend games that are one star.
Now, we can't hide it.
Up there in the top right-hand corner
is a brand-new feature in iOS 6,
the Facebook Like button.
Now,
if your players have Facebook accounts,
they can tap on the Like button,
and that will send a
message off to Facebook,
and in their friends' news feeds,
they'll see the fact
that you like this game.
Now, when their friends tap on the link,
we'll take them directly
to the App Store,
and they can download your game.
We think this is a fantastic way
for your players to spread the word
about what a great game you've built.
Now, your friends,
when you're playing games and
you're talking about games,
we don't stop at just telling
each other about new games,
do we?
If your friends are
anything like my friends,
they kind of, shall we say,
brag about their scores.
And it makes me feel a little bad
because I'm a terrible game player.
But we wanted to take advantage of that,
right?
Because this is the sort of
energy that players already have.
They're already doing this activity.
So let's give them the facility to
do that right inside Game Center.
So here you'll see the brand-new
score and achievement detail.
And right there is the share button.
All your players have
to do is tap on that.
and they'll get the system-wide
UI activity view controller.
And from there,
they can share their scores
and achievements via email,
via iMessage, via Twitter or Facebook.
In this case,
I'm going to tap on Facebook.
Up comes the system
composed sheet for Facebook.
We've prepopulated that with
information about the game they're
playing and a link to Game Center.
When the player taps post,
all of his friends' devices will
see the update to their Facebook or
Twitter or any other social network
stream with the information about
the liked and the shared score.
So that's great, right?
We could bring them to the App Store,
but that's not really
how we wanted to do this.
So when they tap on that link,
we'll actually bring them into
Game Center and we'll show them
the achievement or the score
that the player has shared.
And when they tap on that link,
we'll actually bring them
into Game Center and right
there from inside Game Center,
if they don't already have the game,
they can download the game.
Plus, if they're not already
friends via Game Center,
there'll be a button there to
send a friend request so that now
they'll have found another friend
via their social networking.
So shared scores and
achievements are great,
and that's part of the equation.
But my friends don't stop at
sharing their scores with me,
much as I wish they would.
They also go on to challenge me
to try and beat their scores.
And so we've built that
right into Game Center.
Challenges are gonna be huge.
Now, the important thing that you're
probably asking yourself is,
jeez, how much code do I have to write
to take advantage of challenges?
I won't kid you.
You can write code to take
advantage of challenges,
but you don't have to.
Out of the box in iOS 6,
every game that supports scores and
achievements supports challenges.
Now this is gonna be big.
As you saw this morning, Jetpack Joyride,
they did a great job of integrating
challenges in just a few days.
And we think it adds a much richer
degree of immersion to the game.
So the way this works is we tap
on the challenge friends button
and up comes the friend picker.
Right there,
I can pick some of my friends
to send the challenge to.
And I want to call your
attention to something.
You'll see that we've broken
this off into two parts.
We have the friends who play the game,
of course, but we also have friends
who don't play the game.
And that's actually critical.
Because you can send challenges to
friends who don't play the game.
And when they get the
challenge notification,
they can tap on the banner or bring
it up in the notification center and
they'll get taken right to the app store.
They can download the game and then bam,
they can start playing
and beat the challenge.
So once I've picked my friends,
then I get a chance to send
a little personal message.
In my case, it's almost always snarky.
But I click send or tap send.
And off it goes.
The push notification goes to my friends,
and they get the banner that comes down.
And lo and behold,
they get an opportunity to jump
inside the game and start playing.
So challenges are really a big deal
because they take a single-player game
and they raise it up to the level of
a multiplayer game because it brings
their friends into the equation.
We think it's going to be a
great feature for your games.
Now, multiplayer is a big deal, as well,
right?
People like playing
games with other people.
And that's why we all get
together around a board game and
spend far too much time there.
And multiplayer invitations are
also a critical aspect to the
discoverability of your game,
right?
Because if you think about it,
one of the things that happens
a lot is someone will say,
hey, let's go play this game.
Right there, you don't have the game,
but you're going to go play
and you're going to have fun.
So, Aideen, as I said,
she's a big racing game fan and
she wants to play the latest space
pylon game with her buddies Bill,
Claire,
sets everything up,
brings up the matchmaking interface,
sends out the invitations.
Bill gets the invitation.
Claire and Deirdre get the invitation.
But they're not big gamers.
So from the invitation,
we take them to the app store where
they can download Space Pylon.
And the moment they download it,
they get brought into the
game and they're ready to go.
So, as happens very frequently
in cases like this,
Claire knocks their socks off.
She wins handily.
For some reason, she's just naturally
good at racing games.
What happens in cases like this, right?
Somebody says, "Hey, no fair.
Let's play that again." Well,
I'm happy to say we now support a
really easy way to just kick off
a brand new match and all you have
to do at the end of the game is
you call rematch with completion
handler and the moment that's done,
you've got a new match all set up,
ready to go,
and your players can continue to
play and continue to have fun.
And remember, the more fun they have,
the more likely they are to
tell their friends about what
a great game you've built.
So in iOS 5, we introduced turn-based
multiplayer gaming.
And this is really a great way
for players to play games because
there's a lot of times when you only
have a few minutes to play a game.
Maybe you're in line at the bank
or picking up the kids or whatever.
You've got a few minutes.
You take your phone out or your iPad out.
You take the turn that
you've got earlier today.
And you can just have a little bit
of fun in the time that you have,
put your phone away, and then you go.
So let me recap exactly how
turn-based multiplayer works,
and then we'll get into some of
the new features we've added.
So remember, in iOS 5,
Aideen would send out the invitations,
and before Bill, Claire,
and Deirdre even get the invitation,
she gets to take her turn.
So when she's done with her turn,
she passes the turn off to Bill.
Now, it turns out that Bill's
hiking out in Yosemite,
so he doesn't get the notification.
And in iOS 5, that's it.
The game will now stand here
until Bill goes into the game,
discovers he's got a turn,
and continues on.
The sad thing is that Claire and
Deirdre don't get the invitation,
they don't get to download the game,
they don't get to have fun.
So one thing we've heard loud and clear
from developers is that this is not the
experience they want for their games.
So we've added turn-based
timeouts in iOS 6 so that now,
after a period of time that you specify,
Bill's turn will time out
and it will pass to Claire.
Claire can take her turn,
and now your game has
a number of options.
You can choose to simply drop Bill from
the game and continue on with,
like, three players.
Or you can give someone,
perhaps Claire or Aideen,
the opportunity to invite
someone to replace Bill.
Maybe you want to invite Edward and
keep on going with a four-player game.
Or as we're going to do,
we're going to rearrange the participants
so that Bill gets another chance.
and Claire then passes the turn to Bill,
and it turns out he's at a restaurant,
they have free Wi-Fi, lo and behold,
he gets the turn notification,
and so instead of spending
time with his family,
he starts playing the game.
When he's done,
the notification passes to Deirdre,
she gets the invitation,
she downloads the game,
and she starts playing.
So turn-based timeouts are
really a big deal to ensure
that everyone gets to play.
And by ensuring everyone gets to play,
you ensure everybody gets
to download the game.
The way you take advantage
of this couldn't be simpler.
There's a new ntern with
next participants API.
You call that and you pass
in an array of participants.
That array is all the
participants in order that they
should take their next turn.
And we recommend that the player who
just finished his turn be added to
the array perhaps as the last player.
And the reason for that is that's
the only way you can ensure
that if everyone times out,
the turn passes back to someone
who at least was present.
And at that point, then,
perhaps your game can kick it
off again or do something else.
You can specify a timeout period.
We have a number of constants.
I believe we have, like, one day,
one week, one month, one millennia,
that kind of thing.
And also, naturally, the match data.
Also in iOS 6,
we've added the ability to save
match data during the turn.
And this is really critical if you
have a game that has multiple phases.
Or perhaps let's say you have like a
trivia game where with each question,
the same player gets to keep his turn.
And as he answers each question,
you save the match data,
the notification goes out
to all the participants,
and everything updates.
So that's turn-based timeouts.
And we think this is a real critical
element to preventing abandoned games.
And an abandoned game, of course,
isn't a fun game.
Now, as you heard,
Game Center is now available on Macs.
And this is fantastic, right?
The same environment that
everybody is familiar with,
those 130 million players,
now they can play games
on their OS X devices.
And they can play multiplayer
games amongst their friends.
And they can also play multiplayer
games on their iOS devices.
Wouldn't it be great if they
could play all together?
Well,
that's what game groups does for us.
You can group your games by any
logical group that you see fit
so that your iPad games and your
OS X games can play together,
your iPad version and your
phone version can play together.
And if you have themed
versions of your games,
maybe you have the Alliance version
of Space Pylon and the Armada
version of Space Pylon,
normally, Aideen and Bill can play,
you know, by themselves,
but now with game groups,
they can actually race
together on common courses.
So Aideen will fly the Alliance ships
and Bill will fly the Armada ships,
and they can race together
to see who's better,
Alliance or Armada.
And if you have themed
versions of your games,
maybe you have the Alliance version
of Space Pylon and the Armada
version of Space Pylon,
normally,
Aideen and Bill can play by themselves,
but now with game groups,
they can actually race
together on common courses.
So Aideen will fly the Alliance ships
and Bill will fly the Armada ships,
and they can race together
to see who's better,
Alliance or Armada.
Now,
because Aideen's such a huge racing fan,
after she plays against
Bill a couple of times,
she's going to want to download
the Armada version of the game.
And it would be kind of a drag if
some of the scores and achievements
that she's earned weren't able to
be passed over to the new game.
Well, fortunately,
Game Groups solves that problem.
So when she downloads the
Armada version of the game,
the scores and achievements that
you've defined to be in common
amongst these different versions will
automatically appear in that version.
So perhaps she gets an achievement
for going through the tutorial.
She doesn't need to do that
again for Armada unless there is
a specific tutorial for Armada.
So this is a great way for your
players to move between games,
play their games with other friends,
and discover new games.
Because, for example,
if they're playing the game on their Mac,
they can send an invitation
to their friend regardless of
what device that friend has.
And if the friend is on an OS X device,
They get a notification there.
Perhaps they don't have the
game yet on that device.
They can download it from the
Mac App Store and they're good to go.
So all of these things are really
important ingredients that go into
making your game discoverable.
Friends telling their friends,
sharing their scores,
challenging their friends
to beat the scores.
This is all going to get the word out
about what a great game you've built.
So, next, I want to talk about polished.
Polished games are the sorts of
games that really do stand out.
They're the ones that people talk
about and they comment about the neat
particle effects and the immersive sound,
but they also comment on the fact that
it just has the features they expect.
So they come to realize that now
they can share their scores and
they can challenge their friends,
and they don't want to leave your game.
You've built such a great game,
they don't want to change -- they
want to swap out to a game center,
they might get distracted
and just not come back.
So right inside game center,
you can bring all of the game center
features right inside your game.
And that's going to be a
critical function for you guys.
But it starts even earlier than that.
It starts with authentication.
Because that's the first experience
your players have with your game.
And we didn't want to get in the way.
We didn't want to pop up splash screens
or alerts or anything like that,
for the vast majority of the cases,
All they'll see is the
usual Game Center banner.
Pop.
And they're good to go.
Now, if your game is the Lucky Game,
that's the first one on their
device that they've ever played,
they'll get a welcome screen like this.
They'll have the opportunity
to pick a nickname,
maybe find some friends
via their contacts,
and they'll be good to go.
As soon as they click tap done,
we'll log them in just
as we would anyone else,
and they're ready to play.
Now, we heard from you guys that
authentication wasn't perfect,
right?
I mean, consider the following scenario.
You've got this dungeon crawl,
and you're running from a monster.
Up ahead is this pit of boiling acid,
and all of a sudden, whoosh,
welcome to the game center.
What do you do?
The game is still running.
You have no idea.
Well, fortunately, in iOS 6,
we've changed the way authentication
works just a little bit,
and we'll cover that in a moment.
Some of your players, though,
they're going to opt out of game center.
You have to be prepared for that.
In the integrating game center talk,
we go into a lot greater depth
for how authentication works,
including some of those
errors that you'll encounter.
And those folks who've opted out,
they'll get this little dialogue box.
They can come back any time
just by launching game center.
So the way it all works now --
is in your application did finish
launching with options method.
You'll grab the local player,
set up an authentication handler,
and then call authenticate.
Now, the actual authentication
handler is pretty simple.
The first thing you'll notice
is we pass a view controller.
And this is actually critical to solving
the problem that you guys highlighted,
which was, hey, I don't know what to do.
I don't know how to pause my
game when you put up your UI.
So now we'll pass you
this view controller,
and at the time that's
appropriate for you,
you can pause the game,
present the view controller,
and give the player the opportunity
to sign into Game Center.
Now, keep in mind,
until you present the view controller,
you can't submit any scores,
you can't submit achievements,
you can't look up challenges,
you can't do anything with Game Center.
So do take that opportunity to pause the
game and present the view controller.
And when the view
controller's been dismissed,
we'll call your
authentication handler again.
And in most cases,
the player will be authenticated,
and all you want to do is
go ahead and enable the
Game Center features for that player.
Now, one thing to be aware of is we'll
also call your authentication
handler each time your game
comes back to the foreground.
And the reason we do that is because
during that intervening time,
the players may have changed.
So Aideen may have handed off her phone
to a friend to let her play the game.
Her friend logs into Game Center,
launches, comes back to the game,
and when we call your
authentication handler,
it's incumbent upon you to discover, oh,
look, it's somebody new.
Put aside Aideen's game and
get ready for a new one.
This is a really simple change that
you can make to all of your games.
Now, the unified experience
is brand new in iOS 6.
We've revamped all of the
in-game UI that you'll see,
and it starts
As you saw earlier,
we've got the in-game rating,
we've also got the Facebook like button,
and the standard leaderboards
that you're familiar with.
But when your players drill
down into those leaderboards,
they can drill down further into their
scores and their friends' scores,
and they can share them
and they can challenge them
right from inside your game.
And this is exactly what they're going
to come to expect from all games.
So it's important that
it be in yours as well.
Obviously, we have the same facility
for achievements.
They can drill into their achievements
and challenge their friends and
share those achievements as well.
Now, you wouldn't expect us to leave
challenges out of the mix because
they're such an important feature.
So now they can drill
into their challenges,
they can either dismiss them,
or if your game supports the
challenge delegate methods,
they can actually tap on play now to
launch the challenge and off they go.
So this is a great set of features
that you can take advantage of.
And the truth is,
it's only about three lines of code.
So strip the comments out of here,
and it's really,
really simple to bring up
the unified experience.
First,
you want to grab the view controller.
There's just one of them.
Then you set a delegate.
And the only reason for the delegate
is to let you know that the view
controller has been dismissed.
There's nothing more you need to do.
Finally, you present the view
controller and you're good.
So you get all of that rich functionality
with just three lines of code.
Now obviously,
these features are all built on
APIs that you have access to.
So you can build out all of
this functionality yourself,
or you can take advantage
of what we've already built.
Leaderboards, if you want to show a
specific leaderboard,
it's really easy.
Three lines more code, you tell us, hey,
let's show some leaderboards,
the scope of the leaderboards,
and then which leaderboard to show.
Similarly, achievements and challenges
are a single line extra code.
So I think you'll find that taking
advantage of the new unified experience
is a really easy addition for your game.
Now, naturally, we didn't want to just
stop with leaderboards,
achievements, and scores, right?
Because there's so much
more to Game Center.
There's all of that
multiplayer experience.
And so in iOS 6,
we've completely revamped the
multiplayer matchmaking experience.
First of all, we streamlined it.
So now you start off with the maximum
number of players that you specify.
And this really helps your players
get in and get playing right away.
Because if all they want
to do is play the game,
they just tap play and they're playing.
And they can remove players fairly
easy just by tapping on the X.
They can add new players back in
by tapping on the resulting square.
Then they can invite their friends
simply by tapping invite friends,
and we have a new friend picker that
gives them the option to just tap,
you know, three times,
they get exactly who
they want in the game,
and tap next to send a
personalized message.
Or they can pick players that
they've played with recently.
Now these don't have to be friends.
They're just people that they
played this game with recently.
So if they auto matched last
time and they just want to
play with those folks again,
they don't have to, you know,
send friend requests and
do all that rigmarole.
They just jump back in,
pick the same people,
and play a new game.
And finally, what we think is going to be
a huge deal for everybody's
game is local multiplayer.
Now, you've always been able
to invite local players,
but you had to do all the work.
Buried deep down in the APIs was
the GK session stuff and you
could find out who was out there.
But it was a bit of work.
Now we've built that right into
the multiplayer matchmaking APIs so
that you don't have to do anything.
The theory being, hey,
Bill is on his way to
Yosemite in the backseat,
his two kids would love to play a game,
right?
Before, the game had to be coded
to especially handle that.
Now every game can handle that.
I think this is a big deal,
especially when it comes
to party circumstances.
Now, bringing up the multiplayer
matchmaking experience is a
little bit more complicated,
but then again, you'd expect it to be,
right?
First,
you have to tell us about your match.
What's the minimum number of players?
What's the maximum number of players?
And there's some other options.
If you're interested,
you really should go to the
multiplayer gaming session on Thursday.
After that,
you create the view controller.
You set your delegates so that you can
know about some of the matchmaking events
that will occur before the game starts.
And then, obviously,
you want to present that so that
your players can interact with it.
And that's it.
When you're done there,
your delegate will get a callback saying,
"Game's ready," and off you go.
You get dropped right into the game.
You can use the same multiplayer
APIs you're familiar with,
and your game goes.
That's the baseline level of polish
that we think every game is going to
require in order to be successful.
You'll need to be able
to send challenges,
share scores, and multiplayer matching
with local players.
It's going to be great.
All of these things combined
together allow you to focus
on what's really important.
And what's really important
is building a fun game.
Right?
I mean,
that's why people play your games.
Now, there's a lot of things that we've
seen that go into making a fun game,
but one of the ones that we'd
like to highlight today is the
games that focus on players,
scores, and achievements.
From the very beginning,
they're the ones that wind
up being the most fun.
If you think about games like
Jetpack Joyride and Temple Run,
as you're running through the game,
as you're flying through the lab,
what do you see?
You see these little banners with
your buddies' names on them because
you've just passed their distance.
And that gives you the
immersive experience that
really draws you into the game.
And we'd like to challenge you to
go a little bit further than that.
We'd like to take advantage of
something you heard about this morning,
the context on a GK score.
This really is an
underused bit of goodness.
You have 64 bits that
you can do anything with.
Any crazy idea that pops into your head,
this is your data.
So let's look at a couple of things
that we were able to think of,
and I'm sure you'll come up
with something even better.
So first of all, we've got space pylon,
right?
Wouldn't it be nice if we
took two bits and encoded the
color scheme of the spaceship?
Well, we still have 62 bits to work with,
so let's take another four to six bits
and encode the style of spaceship.
So now I know whether I'm
flying the Alliance fighter
jet or the Armada Raider.
All there in the scores.
And that gives me a lot of power
as I'm showing my leaderboards.
So, maybe at the end of the game I can
show up all the players who are
doing a little bit better than me.
All my friends, right?
I mean, this is a pretty common
experience in games.
Here's your score,
here's the guys who are ahead of you.
Well,
wouldn't it be great if your players
could tap on those scores and they
could see exactly the ship configuration
or the player class or the weapons or
whatever that makes sense to that score?
Wouldn't it be neat if they could say,
"Oh, I could get that and I bet that
would help me play the game."
Now, 64 bits is a lot,
but it's not everything, right?
You can't encode all of the data that
they did this morning in 64 bits.
It's just not possible.
So what you can do is you can
collect all of the telemetry,
all of the random number seeds,
all of the data that you needed to do to
create that experience and save it off
to a server somewhere as a ghost lap.
And then you can replay that
information at any time.
So instead of just seeing, oh, look,
he was flying a red Alliance fighter jet,
I can actually see the path that
he took around the course that
helped him get such a high score.
Now, scores and context,
that's pretty cool, right?
And there's great things that you
can do by putting just a little bit
more information into the scores so
that you can pull it back out later.
But where it gets really cool
is when you add challenges,
as you saw this morning.
Because scores and context and challenges
That's pure awesome.
The sorts of things that we saw this
morning with the ghost lap as Adam and
Joe were competing right there,
that's fantastic.
We'd love to see you guys take
advantage of things like that.
And I know it's a little
bit extra work on your part,
but it really is going to give a
great experience for your players.
So instead of getting my
challenge to finish the course in
under 3 minutes and 15 seconds,
in any old fighter that I want to fly,
wouldn't it be great if your
players could have the option of
flying in exactly the configuration
that the challenger flew in?
It would really enrich
the experience for them.
Now,
game groups are another key technology
that you can take advantage of.
to make your games just
that more immersive?
So for example, Aideen flies Alliance and
Bill flies Armada.
Great games.
They play together,
they can fly on common racecourses,
right?
But wouldn't it be great to give
Aideen the experience of playing
Armada in a multiplayer setting?
And the way you can do that,
and encourage Aideen to try out
the Armada version of the game,
is take advantage of player attributes
when you set up the matchmaking,
so that Bill is the host,
and when the game gets connected,
Aideen is sent all of the assets,
so that she has the opportunity
to fly one of the Armada Raiders,
and fly on one of the
cool Armada racecourses,
with all the alien buildings
and the whole nine yards.
This is a great way to expose players to
games that they might not otherwise have.
All part of the game
group that you've built.
And we think it's going to be a great
way to expose people to your games.
So those are just a couple of
Game Center ways that you can
enhance your games and make
them a little bit more fun.
There's a couple of other technologies
that you might have heard about
this morning that we also think
are a great way to raise the bar
on the fun level of your game.
The first is Airplay.
Airplay is a perfect match
for turn-based games.
If you think about it,
when you're playing a board game,
you've got this big public experience,
the board.
Maybe you're playing Railroad Empire,
and you can see the routes that
your buddies have all claimed.
You can see whatever special
actions are in effect.
There's all this public information,
but then there's the private information,
right?
That's the information on your device.
And maybe that's your special actions
or your special abilities or the
routes you're trying to complete.
And it's a perfect match here.
Only one device has to be
broadcasting to the big screen,
and you don't have to worry about
frame rates or anything else like that,
because by and large,
it's a pretty static display.
Fantastic fit.
Now, also,
Party games like this are a
great fit for local multiplayer,
right, because all it takes is one person
to start up the game and everybody
else can just jump right in.
Don't even have to know they're there.
They can just jump in, play the game.
Fantastic for party games.
The other big one, frankly, is iCloud.
How many times have you
been playing a game,
you've gotten lots of power-ups,
you've bought special
equipment for your ship,
then you move over to your iPad,
and it's gone?
It's not just long-running
games that have game state.
Sure, in your dungeon crawl,
you want to save exactly where you
are in the dungeon and what monsters
you killed and what loot is where.
But it also is really important
for short-running games.
So it's a great idea at any point
that your game is complete to save
that information up to iCloud so
that it's available across devices.
So when I go home and I play on my iPad,
I get all of the same achievements
and power-ups and coins and everything
else that I've been playing with all
day long instead of doing my work.
And the key to all of this is you
want to use the ID of the game
group as the index on iCloud.
Because that will give you a common
index across all of your games so that
they can all access the same data.
So those are a couple of things
that we want you to think about
when you think about how can
I make my game even more fun.
Now, naturally,
you're already building fun games or
we wouldn't be having this discussion.
But there's so much
more that can be done.
There are great technologies that you
can take advantage of Game Center and
then focus on all the other great
stuff you'd like to add to your game.
Naturally, like I said,
there's this base level of polish that
you're going to want every game to have.
And we think Game Center is a perfect
way to take advantage of that.
And of course, Game Center,
it's the key to making
your game discovered,
right?
There's lots of players out there,
130 million of them.
They're sending in 5 billion scores.
They're going to tell their friends
about what a fun game you've made.
And those friends are
going to download the game,
they're going to tell their friends,
and you know the rest of that.
So if there's any more
information that you need,
naturally you want to
contact Alan Schaefer.
He's a great guy.
He'll hook you up with the best folks.
There's great documentation
on the website.
And I really would encourage you
to check out the developer forums.
I know I find it very helpful
when I'm doing Mac development.
And we have some really awesome
sessions coming up this week.
First of all,
you want to go to the integrating
with GameCenter session because
that will go into really deep dive
on scores and achievements and
exactly how to hook into challenges.
Because there's great things you can do
with challenges that don't come for free,
but they're so cool.
Next, check out the What's New in
iTunes Connect because that's
how your game is defined,
right?
That's where your game
groups are defined.
It's where you set up
your Game Center enabling.
And there's some new stuff there.
And, you know, it's kind of tricky.
Multiplayer gaming with
Game Center on Thursday,
great thing to take advantage of
if you have a multiplayer game or
if you're thinking about adding
multiplayer to your existing game.
There's a lot of new stuff there
that I didn't even get to talk about.
And finally,
if you're thinking about porting
your iOS game to OS X or if you're
an OS X developer and you just want
to get a little bit more familiar
with how it all works on Macs,
definitely check out the
Building Game Center games for OS X.